# Annotations  
(5/8/2025, 10:54:31 AM)

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=1&annotation=IWRU7G5R) “This mock loop setup accurately mimics the cardiovascular system of a human body including the pulmonary and systemic circulation. The mock loop is used to perform in vitro-tests of the Hybrid Heart prototypes while working in physiological and pathological conditions (when preferred).” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 1](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=1&annotation=VR62QJUT) “We mimic the viscosity of the blood with water and glycerol.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 1](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=1&annotation=BM2SCXSI) “Tubing: Tygon Tubing are used as tubes as they provide low resistance to the flow of blood.They have an inner diameter of 25mm and outer diameter of 30 mm.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 1](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=1&annotation=WQLY8ATD) “Compliance Chambers: The compliance chambers are present to passively mimic the rise and fall of the blood pressure in the aorta. This is representative of the ability of the blood vessel to expand and contract due to its own elasticity.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 1](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=2&annotation=M94QVSVE) “In construction the chambers are 120mm in diameter and 30mm high. The inflow and outflow connections along with the the pressure sensor are mounted at the bottom of the chambers. Regular pipe fittings are used as connectors. Each pair of chambers also has a port with a electronically connected solenoid valve for easy filling of the system. The ports at the top of the chambers allows the chambers to be sealed to atmosphere and can be unsealed to drain out the water.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 2](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) compliance chamber design for HHH Saxion mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=2&annotation=I5GD2H5F) “3. Flow resistors: The resistor used is a Burkert diaphragm pinch valve. The resistor offers obstruction to the flow of "blood". It is used to set the pressure difference between the afterload chamber and the preload chamber it is connected to.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 2](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop flow resistor design

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=3&annotation=5GWAW8K3) “OsiSem XM XMLP500MC11F Electronic Pressure sensors were used.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 3](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=3&annotation=QCN3RJXB) “Ultrasonic clamp-on liquid flow sensors from em-tec are used to measure the output flow of the heart to measure the cardiac output.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 3](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=3&annotation=QWPHEGQS) “Each of the flow sensors are connected to a DIGIFLOW-EXT1 flow measurement board which measures the signal from the flow sensors and provides and analogue output in the range of 0 to 5V and can measure upto 32L/min. The flow sensors were tested and validated before use. The board provides analogue output at different frequencies at 100Hz, 10Hz and 1Hz. To maximize our data points the 100Hz output was used.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 3](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=4&annotation=DPCRM4MF) “We also measure the volume of air into and out of the actuators. Measuring the driveline pressure and volume in and out of the heart we can better optimize the heart. Two festo air flow sensors (SFAH-100U-Q8S-PNLK-PNVBA-M8) with range 2 - 100 L/min were used one on the positive pressure side and one just before the vacuum generator. This gives us an accurate measurement of air flowing to the actuator and the amount of air removed from the actuator.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 4](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=5&annotation=NAEZALZA) “A NI 6343 DAQ was used as the control board of the system. It has 32 analogue input ports for monitoring the different sensors. Two analogue outputs provide control to the electronic pressure regulator and many digital output pins for controlling different parts of the system. The data is acquired through a HybridHeart labview based app which can control the various output ports and store the various inputs in a readable file.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 5](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=5&annotation=A6LZ6RLN) “Various 3/2 solenoid valves are used throughout the system from controlling the timing of the pneumatic line to controlling the filling and draining of the compliance chambers. These are controlled through the digital ports of the DAQ board by a high power switching circuit using MOSFETs as shown in Fig.3.4.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 5](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop solenoid valve setup  
A 3/2 solenoid valve is the pneumatic analog to an electrical switch, with 1 inlet, 1 outlet and 1 exhaust, switching the valve routes the air either through the exhaust or the output

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=8&annotation=KAI9NMB8) “For quickly removing the air from the actuators inside the hybrid heart we have included a vacuum generator to actively pump out the volume of air. The vacuum generator is fropm Festo (VN-14-L-T4-PQ2-VQ3-RO2) and is based on a venturi design where the driving pressure of upto 8 bars generates a maximum suction rate of 90L/min.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 8](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop  
This venturi effect states that fluid pressure reduces if flow rate increases (think of a pipe with narrow midsection)  
  
Bernoulli's principle states that in a steady flow the sum of all forms of energy in a fluid must remain constant. Thus an increase in flow rate (kinetic energy) causes a decrease in pressure (potential energy)

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=9&annotation=7PIAQECX) “Festo MHE2-MS1H–5/2-QS-4-K solenoid valves were used to control the actuation of the hybridheart. Two 24V 5/2 valves are connected in parallel such that they work together to allow the actuator to be either connected to the pressure supply or by default be connected to the vacuum generator. The actuator by default is connected to the vacuum generator through the solenoid valves to prevent the actuator from exploding in case of an emergency. On signal from the NI DAQ the solenoids actuate and the actuator is connected to the pressure regulator to fill up the actuator to a set pressure. The timing of these valves set the systole and diastole time” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 9](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop heart actuation pneumatic Solenoid valve connection

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=10&annotation=K384FWSY) “There is also provision for an extra mass flow controller from festo (VEMD-L-6-14-20-D21-M51-R1-V4). It can be used to control the flow rate to the system.” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 10](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=11&annotation=G45TIDW3) “For data acquisition we currently use the HybridHeart App, which is a Labview based app. The sensors are connected to the NI-6343 controller and the corresponding ports are configured in the HH app. Each sensor can also be calibrated according to their respective data sheets and their conversion formulae are put into the app before starting any experiment. The data is then stored in a text file with all selected sensors data being stored in columns in the text file. The data is then read through a matlab script which generates the plots for the pressures and flows respectively” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 11](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX))

[Go to annotation](zotero://open-pdf/library/items/X8N8LL62?page=11&annotation=J7H3DHTP) “Sensor Configuration” ([“Saxion HHH mockloop report Joris”, p. 11](zotero://select/library/items/7RNN94HX)) Saxion HHH mockloop calibration functions here